Hey YouTube, it's Chris. Welcome back to
the channel. In this video, I want to
help you guys get the highest frames and
lowest latency out of Arc Raiders for
your PC. This game engine is on UI5,
which surprisingly runs quite well. Made
by the developers that did the finals,
and they did quite well with that
engine, considering it was UE5. So, to
keep things simple and short, I haven't
done extensive tests, but I have done
tests. Benchmarks are tested with these
specs do not expect identical results on
your hardware. That said, you can expect
similar FPS and latency scaling with my
recommendations. These guides are GPU
focused, designed to reduce GPU load,
lower latency, and let your CPU push
maximum frame rate. Tests are done in
repeatable GPU bound scenarios for
consistency, but real world performance
may vary. I can't account for your CPU
RAM strength, tuning, or how the game
handles CPU load in live gameplay. If
the CPU expectations check hardware
reviewer CPU game benchmarks while I
test on high-end hardware, similar
scaling applies on most systems, unless
your CPU bottlenecked. Here are the
settings that were on by default. Well,
almost I've adjusted one or two.
basically change the on plus boost and
change the anti-aliasing method
to import the config. I want you guys to
Google free GitHub. Go straight there on
free GitHub. There's two options you can
import. Two ways you can import the
config. So go to GitHub game configs.
The first option is very very easy. You
can do it through PowerShell. It's
through IWR method. Before you do this,
we need to make sure that you can run
scripts. So, type scripts,
click on this one here, scroll down, and
turn this on. After you've done that, I
want you to search PowerShell,
right click Windows PowerShell, run as
administrator. Once you've done that,
underneath IWR, I want you to click here
to copy the code.
Go to your PowerShell window. Make sure
it says administrator Windows PowerShell
there. I want you to right click to
paste the code or Ctrl +V. Code should
look like that. Press enter. Press
number two. Press enter. Okay. It'll say
run game wants to generate config
location. We're going to do that now.
Config location is actually app data
local Pioneer game saved config Windows
client. Now, if you've already been
playing the game, you guys will be fine.
You won't have to do this stage. If you
just started playing the game, watch the
intro and you should get to about here.
When you're at this part of the game,
then you can exit the game. Press enter
in PowerShell. Now, it'll say Arc
Raiders config applied. So, you can
press any key or you can exit that. So,
that's it. Now, what did that do? That
simply just changed the config or added
the config. So if you go to app data
local
pioneer game saved config Windows client
that's where the config is I have added
this input.ini just in case the game has
mouse acceleration that will disable
mouse acceleration on UE5
and it has also either overridden or
edited your config. There's a couple of
extra things that can be turned down in
the config and we'll talk about doing
in-game settings a little bit later.
Now, let's say you wanted to do this
manually and you didn't want to do it
through a PowerShell script method.
That's fine. Here's how to do that. In
GitHub game configs, click on Arc
Raiders. All you need is Arcraders.zip.
So, click on Arcraders.zip
and click download raw file. Once you've
done that, we'll up um go to your
downloads folder. In your downloads
folder, just go extract here
or extract files. Find these two files.
You'll need to right click properties.
You'll need to click unblock, apply.
Okay. Same with game user settings.
Click properties. Unblock. Apply. Okay.
You won't see that. You don't see that
here because I created the files on this
machine, but Defender will actually
block the files. So, unblock the files
first, please. Once you've done that, we
need to go back to app data. So, go to
app data, Windows key R to run. Type app
data. Press okay. Go to local. Go to
pioneer game.
Go to saved. Go to config. Go to Windows
client. Now you guys probably if you
guys have already launched the game,
this is what the folder will look like.
Okay, this is the location. This is what
the folder will look like. You simply
just go to copy
and paste the files here. So that's how
to do it manually. If you do not like
the config or you want to revert, all
you need to do or start completely
fresh, all you need to do is delete
these two files. Or you could simply go
to local and delete pioneer game. That's
how to revert. Launch the game. Once
you're in the match, I want you to go to
the settings. So, press escape, go to
settings, go to graphics. You guys are
going to need to set your correct
resolution because the config files left
those lines blank and it may be
completely incorrect. If the config
applied properly and actually worked,
your graphics settings should roughly
look like this.
Now, if you're not cloning displays or
cloning a capture card, you guys are
totally fine to play borderless full
screen. It will use hardware independent
flip fine either on Windows 10 or 11. I
am cloning with a capture card. That
always causes issues. As you can see, it
made my frame rate go down. So, if
you're a streamer, you got a capture
card, and you're not using pass through,
you're cloning, please make sure you're
running exclusive full screen. Frame
generation is pretty impressive in this
game. If you have an Nvidia card, you
will want a base FPS, I'm going to say,
of at least probably 200 to make it
worth it compared to what the latency is
going to be like. Um, I will talk about
that a little bit later, but um, it will
add latency. You guys will see later in
some benchmarks. So you guys know for
testing I'm using the Nvidia frame view.
You guys can use this too. Or if you
have the Nvidia app installed, you can
use the overlays. Um and AMD actually
has an alternative through their driver
now which you can measure latency as
well cuz this game has AMD um anti-lag
built into it too which is really really
great. From my testing I've actually
found that on plus boost lowers latency
quite a lot more than just your default
on. So, my recommendation is actually on
plus boost regardless of your uh GPU
load. Just have it on plus boost. If you
are struggling to get more frames after
this and you're just completely GPU
bound, your CPU can spit out more
frames. I'd really recommend considering
some of the upscale techniques. So,
resolution scaling method for you on
Nvidia cards, you can try Nvidia DLSS.
That might help a lot. It's way better
than running a lower resolution. Now,
this is the older Transformer model,
which will be technically DSS 3. This
will be DLSS4. You won't get as many
frames with DLSS4 Transformer. You
won't, but it will look a little bit
better. So, play around with these and
some of these presets. Um, if it helps
your frames, image quality won't look as
good though, just so you guys know. But,
if you guys do not have um that option,
you could try AMD FSR. I'm hoping they
have AMD FSR4 on the newer cards. That
would be nice. You can play around with
some of these uh if that helps your
frame rate. If you are just GPU bound,
if you're not getting any more frames
with these settings, it means that
you're just CPU bound and you need a
faster CPU. Using these features is
going to be much better than just
running the lowest resolution or simply
just um through the slider or just
simply just running a lower resolution
in general. I wouldn't recommend that. I
would really recommend using one of the
resolution scaling methods. Now, even
though this game has AMD anti-lag and um
Nvidia reflex built in, this game is
still very sensitive to GPU usage. From
what I see, the game has no sharpening
method. So, um if you want a little bit
of more sharpening if you have an Nvidia
card, you can go to program settings at
Arc Raiders. Um and then you can just
use um this would be quite nice.
Generally speaking, you only lose a
couple of frames using this. On AMD
cards, you guys have a much better
option. You guys can do it in the driver
and there's no FPS impact. Actually,
usually a lot of game developers because
this is open source are actually putting
it into their game which is actually
called AMD CAS. Um, and you'll see that
in Call of Duty titles like Call of Duty
and stuff like that. Um, but in this
game I I can't see that there. That's a
bit of a shame. Now, if you're like me
and you're really happy with how the
game runs already, um, or you've got a
really really good card and you don't
mind turning some settings up, I would
actually consider running a little bit
of anti-alisting. I can't believe I'm
saying that. So, TA UU will be the least
um, demanding method to run
anti-alisting. it will make things a
little bit blurry um and a little bit
blurry in motion. You guys probably
can't see that. It's not as bad as a lot
of other games are going to be honest,
but TAA does add a bit of blurry in
motion. So, there are the better options
for TAA. Um TSR will look slightly
better. Uh it has got a little bit of
read me on the right side as there. Um
TSR is a higher quality but slower
resolution scaling method. So, we lose a
few more frames. As you can see, we're
down to 350 with that. Um, but
personally, I'm probably going to be
running um DLSS with DAA um because that
is a much better um anti-aliasing
method. It does have TAA baked into it,
but it's much cleaner. And I found that
um in a lot of games um the TAA
implementation in DAA is really really
clean. The transferable model won't
really matter because it's DAA. That
that would only really matter if we're
on the other presets. Um so I'm just
going to set it to CNN. Um and that
actually looks just really really clean.
Um, and you know, I'm losing what I
mean, maybe maybe 50 FPS, maybe 40 FPS,
but I've already got enough, which is
nice. I do have a 59er, though, to be
fair. Now, some other settings that I
would really recommend turning up, um,
if you've got headroom, um, view
distance is going to be really handy,
especially if, you know, we're playing
against other players here. Um,
anti-acing quality. I mean, you could
turn up, but honestly, I'm not going to
turn it up. I'm really happy with the
way it looks. Now, textures is a big
one. You always want to have textures
turn up. That'll make the game look
really, really nice. Um, the kind of
rest I personally would probably leave.
Maybe if you hate how the shadows look.
It does take a bit of an FPS hit there,
but it does look nice. But honestly,
because this game runs quite well, I am
going to turn the shadows up. That's
probably what I'm going to end up
running. For me personally, this looks
really nice. I might add a little bit of
sharpening through the Nvidia control
panel on top of this, but um, it looks
quite beautiful and I would recommend
capping in game. You guys will see
benchmarks a little bit later. You want
to stay under 90% GPU usage ideally. Um
especially those of you on a really weak
graphics card. It's going to help a lot.
Even if you are using Reflex or AMD
anti- lag, please do cap to stay under
90% GPU usage. If at a later date you
are using native resolution and you
change to one of these resolution
scaling methods, that will change your
GPU usage significantly. So you might
want to change your frame rate cap at
that point. it will be very different
there. So guys, just get some kind of an
overlay and see what your GPU usage is
doing. Try to stay under 90 if you can
or at 90. Now in-game performance
overlay on detailed is really useful.
Okay, if you don't have tools like this
to measure latency, you can look at
frame time, GPU, CPU time, CPU render,
GPU milliseconds, GPU. There you go.
This GPU utilization there. Getting
these lower will lower your latency.
These are part of the latency chain that
actually the frame view is is measuring.
So you don't necessarily have to use an
overlay. You could just look at these
metrics. Getting these metrics lower is
better if you're playing around with
different settings in China trying to
dial in something that you like. Another
thing I found, I haven't played at all
really yet, but night mode may help a
lot of you if you're not using loudness
EQ in Windows and you want to hear
footsteps a little bit better. Night
mode's pretty nice and it doesn't
compress the audio too much. Now, there
are a few extra things that I was able
to turn down in the config that you
couldn't in the game. This one here,
this one here. I also noticed lens
distortion enabled. That was enabled by
default as well in the config. They've
been turned down. I did notice that
resizable bar is enabled by default in
video profile inspector if you're on the
latest driver. I tested that, too.
Here's a benchmark of the ultra settings
versus config. On ultra settings, we're
getting about 200 frames. With the
config, we're getting about 416 frames
per second. from 11.7 milliseconds all
the way down to 7.3 milliseconds. The
GPU usage surprisingly really didn't
change.
On the left, you'll see latency and that
you'll see GPU usage. Okay, so just
turning things down low, I was getting
408 FPS. And then when I did the config
and I turned the extra things down, I
was able to get to squeeze a couple more
frames to about 416 FPS as you can see
that. And the latency actually came down
from 7.6 6 milliseconds to 7.3
milliseconds. So going in the config and
turning some things down extra was kind
of nice. Now I was hoping that
scalability was going to help quite a
lot. This file from Vitmap that I like
to test with a lot of games just to see
if the game accepts scalability or not.
Unfortunately, the game does not accept
scalability. As you guys can see here,
here's the official documentation um
from Unreal Engine about scalability.
These are just things you can turn down
extra by adding command lines in a
certain location called scalability.in
that you put in the game folder. Yeah,
the game was not accepting them. None of
them worked. Everything here is just
benchmark variation, unfortunately.
I've decided to test hardware
accelerated GPU scheduling. That's this
setting here that you can change on or
off in Windows. Definitely leave it on.
I went from 380 FPS with it off to 416
FPS with it on. Right. Okay. Lengthy
kind of stayed the same. Uh the GPU
usage surprisingly was a little higher
with hags off which is interesting. So
it's definitely helping there. Leave
hardware accelerated GPU scheduling on.
I tested SMT hyperthreading off. I had
to do it in BIOS. The game wouldn't let
me change affinities at all. Um with it
off, we got slightly higher latency uh
which is to be expected. The game will
only be running on the course. So leave
your threads on the CPU, please. Just
leave them. Which is like 99% is what
you should do for all games. Um, there
always a couple of games that are an
outlier, but just leave your threads on.
Okay, frame gen was a weird one. I feel
like I'm kind of lucky here with a 50
series card. The frame gen lacy didn't
increase that much. Now, I've always
found that with a high frame rate as a
base,
frame gen won't really increase latency
that much. So, I decided to test it with
the ultra config, you know. Um, and um,
we do see it go up a little bit, you
know, ultra 11 milliseconds, um, but
then, you know, frame gen on 13
milliseconds with ultra 14 miseconds.
But that's not usually the behavior that
I see. Um, this may be way worse uh, if
you have a much lower frame rate as a
base. So, just beware if you want to use
frame gen. Um, it may add a lot of
latency if you have a lower frame rate.
Um, but if you have a decently higher
frame rate as a base, I would want to
say at least 200 FPS, it may actually be
worth using as long as you're not
getting any artifacts while you're using
it. Yes, it will increase your latency,
but not by heaps. Now, this is for
Nvidia frame genet. I can't
unfortunately speak for AMD frame gen in
this game. Um, you guys are just going
to have to test it and have a feel for
yourself.
Okay, FPS cap where it gets really
interesting. So I put here always stay
under 90% GPU usage gets really
interesting here. So default with the
config we have 7.3 milliseconds input
lag at 97% GPU usage at 416
FPS. Okay. So what are the different cap
methods? If we do in-game cap to 300, I
go to 67% GPU usage. My lazy goes down
to 6.6 milliseconds. All right. I also
tested Nvidia driver cap which was 6.5
milliseconds. River Tuna Async cap,
which came up to 10.7 milliseconds. So,
don't use River Tuna's async cap, guys,
please. And River Tuna's reflex cap was
6.4 milliseconds. So, in reality, I
would just cap in game cuz it's easier.
Um,
yeah, I would just cap in game because
these small differences could literally
be benchmark run variation. I just cap
in game. But the driver isn't bad and
the reflex river tuner isn't bad. Even
though it looks like that those 0.1% got
tanked, that could just be bench a bad
benchmark run. Um, but honestly, I would
just cap in game. Just stay under 90%
GPU usage and you will be fine. Uh, that
would be my recommendation. And like I
said before, if you do end up playing
with um frame generation or you end up
playing with DSS or FSR or XCSS, one of
the upscaling options, you will
potentially change your GPU usage then.
So, you might want to readress what
you're going to cap the frames to. But
guys, please, if you can in this game,
have AMD anti lag on or Nvidia reflex on
plus boost and cap your frames to stay
under 90% GPU usage. Do that last after
you've done the config, you've got the
game running the way that you like it.
Hope the video helped you guys. This
looks like a really, really good game
and I'm looking forward to playing it.
I'll catch you guys in the next one.
Bye. Optimizing game settings and config
files can only do so much. Please
consider going through this GitHub guide
with video to cover the basic Windows
and BIOS optimizations. If hardware is
limiting your performance, please check
out my build guide for upgrade and PC
build suggestions. Make sure to update
to the latest graphics drivers or at
least the recommended version from the
game developer or game mentioned in
driver patch notes from the driver
developer. The Nvidia app with certain
settings turned on will cause frame rate
loss. Turn off optimized games and
creative applications. Turn off
automatically optimized newly added
games and apps. Avoid using game filters
and statistics. As far as AMD drivers,
I've not seen any tests, so just be
cautious. Game launchers should have
logging, game overlay, hardware
acceleration, and cloud sync turned off.
Please do this for web browsers,
Spotify, Discord, or anything else open
while you play. Any monitoring or RGB
program causes frame rate loss, even
closed, this includes Asus Armory Crate,
MSI Gigabyte, Azok driver utilities,
NZXD CAM, Corsair IQ, Lean Lee, L
Connect, and etc. uninstall if possible.
Services and drivers for these apps
still run even if the apps are closed.
GPUZ, hardware info, MSI after burner,
and etc can cause frame rate problems
when logging GPU power. Close these out
when gaming or turn off GPU power
logging in the settings. If you like
your Windows game, BIOS hardware or
stream setup fresh, tuned, and
optimized, support me and book my PC
service. All links can be found in the
description below. are just check link
tree.